% More Info
% John Gabriele

Gouda expects a few things about your docs:

  * All doc files must be Markdown-formatted (see [Pandoc's
    Markdown](http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/README.html#pandocs-markdown)).

  * All doc filenames must end in ".md".

  * You must have an index.md file, plus at least two other doc files
    (otherwise your chapter navigation area won't be very interesting).

  * Your doc files must begin with a header block like this:

        % Title for this Doc

    You can also add additional lines to that block for author and date (see
    [Title Block](http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/README.html#title-block)).

  * If gouda finds a `_copyright` file in the docs dir, it will place
    its contents as-is into the footer of every html chapter. This
    file will usually contain something like: `Your Name, 2013`.



# What it Does

Gouda generates cross-linked html files from your markdown-formatted
doc files.  The resulting html files will reside in the same directory
as the ".md" files.

Gouda will also generate a default "styles.css" file, which you can
customize, or use as-is (this site uses it as-is).

Each ".md" file should represent one "chapter". To rearrange the order
in which the chapters are listed in the ToC, edit the autogenerated
"toc.conf" file and re-run gouda.py.

The index.md file is special, and it's required. It serves as the
"front page" of your documentation. Also, it's title (in the "[title
block](http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/README.html#title-block)")
should be the name of your project — it will be shown in the header of
every generated page.

<a id="simple-template"/>
As a simple template, you might start your docs looking like this:

~~~~
% Title Goes Here
% Author Name
% 2013-02-04

Some text.

An H1 Heading
=============

Some text.

An H2 Heading
-------------

etc.
~~~~

The title after the "%" is what will appear in the ToC (except for
index.md, the title of which will be used as the name of your
documentation project).

For more help writing Pandoc's Markdown, see the [Quick Markdown
Example](quick-markdown-example.html).

Once you've got some docs written, you might use rsync/ftp/scp your
docs dir to the web to publish them.
