% Rationale and Benefits
% John M. Gabriele

It can be difficult to find good documentation. Some reasons for this
might include:

  * the developer is busy with other things and hasn't yet made time
    to create or improve the docs
  * the developer doesn't like or isn't familiar with the available
    doc formats and/or tools
  * users were not helping improve the docs and the developer lost
    interest in doing it all him/herself
  * the developer isn't very good at writing docs, and ends up
    avoiding writing them
  * some docs were written once, but they got out of date
  * writing a full manual is a large task and takes a lot of
    motivation to get started
  * the developer simply doesn't like writing docs, and the job
    keeps getting pushed to the bottom of the todo list

But without good docs you won't have many (happy) users. And without
users you tend to lose motivation to work on your software. It becomes
a vicious cycle.

Gouda aims to remedy the situation.

Here's how Gouda can help create good docs for your project:

 1. Simplicity. You just create a `docs` directory, write your docs as
    simple text files, then run the script. There's *zero*
    configuration (unless you'd like to re-order how your docs appear
    in the autogenerated table of contents). You don't have to spend
    your time reading a manual or learning how to configure anything
    --- just run the script, upload your docs, and you're done.

 2. Your docs are formatted in Markdown (with some Pandoc
    enhancements). Pretty much everyone already knows Markdown (it's
    used on Reddit, Stackoverflow, Github, in README's everywhere,
    etc.). There's almost no learning curve. Users will not have to
    learn any new markup formats or complicated tools to contribute to
    your docs.

    Another benefit of using Markdown is that it looks great as plain
    text in your editor. Easy to write, easy to read, easy syntax to
    remember.

 3. With Gouda, you modularize your docs into bite-sized files (one
    file per "chapter"). This helps lower the procrastination barrier;
    you can start small. Write a small index.md and maybe an
    overview.md and an examples.md file, run gouda.pl, and immediately
    get some results that you can make available.

    This also greatly lowers the barrier for potential contributors.
    A collaborator can send you a single text file which could simply
    be dropped into your docs directory to automatically [^1] become a
    new chapter in your docs.

 4. All of your doc pages have their source readily available by just
    clicking the link in the footer (try it on this page). This makes
    it easy for collaborators to send you changes or diffs, if that's
    easier for them.

 5. It's fairly easy to get your documentation started. If you don't
    know where to start, here are some ideas:

      * If your README is pretty large, you might move some of it into
        an index.md file in your docs dir, and the rest into an
        overview.md file.

      * Move your project's NEWS file into the docs directory.
        Rename it to news.md and adjust the formatting to Markdown.

      * Write up some examples and put them into an examples.md or
        cookbook.md file. Recall that you can get syntax highlighting
        for code blocks using "delimited blocks" as shown in the
        [quick markdown example](quick-markdown-example.html).

      * Another way to start is to just go into your docs directory
        and create a few files that come to mind which you think you
        can start to sketch out (for example, maybe a short
        tutorial.md, cheatsheet.md, or quick-ref.md doc).

 6. Making the docs available online is easy. Just rsync/ftp/scp the
    files (or the whole docs directory) to your webserver. Some module
    repositories (like Python's
    [Cheeseshop](http://cheeseshop.python.org)) will host plain html
    files like this for you.

 7. Using Gouda doesn't actually tie you to any one particular
    documentation tool. It's just a simple script that happens to use
    Pandoc for its Markdown file processing (see the [faq](faq.html)
    for reasons why I chose to use Pandoc).

[^1]: Well, almost automatically; you'd also need to add the file to
your toc.conf.
